# Reflecting on the pedagogical recommendations of Alfie Kohn

## George Polya's "How to solve it"

As I read Alfie's article, I was immediately reminded of a dialogue in George Polya's book, "How to solve it." The dialogue is between a hypothetical teacher and students. The teacher asks the students what the formula of the volume of a parralelepid might be. Then Polya demonstrates his problem solving and teaching technique by having his hypothetical teacher guide students through a set of insights to the solution. The interesting correlation between this notion of learning and what Alfie suggests lies in the notion of an ongoing dialogue between the teacher and student. Inherently dictatorial, the letter grade fixes the teaching style. It is difficult to pull a mark out of thin air and assign it to a student's participation in a dialogue. Alfie points out throughout the article that grades are not necessary for the act of learning and likely inhibit it. I find it comical to imagine a foil to Polya's teacher who stamped children's heads with an **F** for each near miss at the true volume formula of a parralelepiped. 

## Having a Growth Mindset

The point that Alfie makes which I most connected with was the discussion of developing an intrinsic motivation within students to learn rather than the extrinsic motivation of achieving an optimal grade. My own experience with this involved my academic journey from middle school until now in graduate school. In middle school, I was a nerdy kid with a love of math, science, and computers and parents who did mind indulging it. I frequently read math and science textbooks because I enjoyed them and I wanted to know more. When I reached highschool, I had come to accept this narrative that I was extremely gifted and neglected the unfettered love of solving problems and reading that had given me that advantage. When I applied to college, I applied to schools that I thought gifted students applied to in a field, computer science, that I thought gifted people studied. To say the least, I was disheartened by the admissions decisions I received. With a desire to prove something, I elected to attend the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign for Pre-Engineering intending to be admitted to a BSE of Computer Science. Unfortunately, I did not really self reflect as a freshman and would not until around my Junior year of college when I stumbled on a Ted Talk on the growth mindset.

It became clear to me that much of my struggle was from an internalized ego that my success had not come from hours of study and determination to understand something, but that I was just born good at math or science. The Ted Talk discusses how poisonous that missive, "You're so smart," can be to a young person. It distracts them from what they should really take pride in, their hard work. I think Alfie's take on education exemplifies this paradigm shift. The teacher should seek to encourage a student's own curiosity and reward the student for hardwork by acknowleding they have demonstrated an understanding through that work. Grades are by their nature reductive. They detract from what you might know and they can just as easily comfort you in your ignorance. 
